# CamPaint
COSC10 Problem Set 1: Region Finding based on Color

A webcam-based painting program in which some portion of the image (say your hand, or a marker tip) acts as a "paintbrush". The core computational problem is to identify the paintbursh in the webcam image. Here we base the recognition solely on color, so it should have a fairly uniform and distinct color. 

## Brief description of implementation & parameter choices:
For color similarity testing purposes (in colorMatch() of RegionFinder.java), I implemented the Euclidean distance method instead of the method comparing the absolute values of the differences between color channels. I preferred the Euclidean method because it could fully recognize the solid yellow thunderbolt (at the left) in “shapes.jpg” while the other method left multiple spots of yellow uncolored. It also identified the other solid colored regions in the static test cases and made sure to not identify the regions with gradients because they were darker than the colors we were trying to identify.
For this method, I used a maxColorDiff value of 720 because I wanted the value to be high enough so that it could easily recognize slightly different shades of the same color when using CamPaint, since the lighting of the room and webcam adjustments to light exposure altered color so much. Any value higher than this colors too much of the pavement in “baker.jpg” when we try identifying the bricks (another static test case). So, the value of 720 was a compromise between both static and streamed cases.
I left the minRegion value of 50 the same because, at this value, my code would only recognize reasonably sized regions, ensuring that regions too small would not be considered.

Brief description of utility & limitations of region growing:
Region growing helps identify and track objects of a selected color, even when they are moving. This means they enable color-based object tracking. Recoloring uses the region growing algorithm to seek out all regions with the selected target and recolors them. Painting uses region growing and then finds the largest region (the “paintbrush”) with the selected target color, ensuring there are not multiple paintbrushes. However, since a solid colored object will have both darker and lighter shades, it becomes difficult to identity that object as a whole in CamPaint (streamed case), even though it has the same color. Here, region growing fails to identify the full region. While one could resolve this by increasing the sensitivity of the color similarity testing method (by increasing maxColorDiff), it would also cause the code to identify the wrong colors/objects (static case: like recoloring the pavement when we try to recolor the bricks in “baker.jpg”). 
